Okay, we're on again.
I'll give you the answer.
I don't know what's the question.
Okay, sounds fair.
A large concern in my book is to deal with the groups and with the effect in society of designating groups as deviants.
As deviant is the word.
Deviant, yes.
It's what I call deviant outgroups.
Okay.
My own personal experience was from going, from being a member of a, you know, solid, well-established, comfortable, middle-class, intellectual, elite.
From one day to the next, I was on the category of vermin that you could kill, you could do anything to, you could take everything they had, you could abuse, you could imprison,
And that was done by having designated the group that I happened to be in as an out-group and as a deviant group, but not quite human.
And this, of course, led to the further atrocities that other, you know, people suffered in the Holocaust.
So I was interested from the beginning when I came to the United States in the fact that
Jews were being discriminated against, but not in this extreme way, but that people of color, African-Americans and Native Americans, were in America so designated.
The consequences weren't as severe yet, and they might never be, but they were, in fact, a designated outgroup, considered deviant, considered different, considered other.
And so from the beginning of my work, the question of race has been a very vital concern.
And I have also, probably because of my experience of being declassed from one day to the next, I've had a very vivid interest in class and how class is created and shapes people's lives and
how it affects them.
And so these two themes are very predominant throughout my book and I have a major essay which is the major new work but actually is the result of 30 years of thinking about this subject on rethinking class and race.
Now I cannot and I don't want to define for you in five seconds here what
I have in that large chapter, but I want to call attention to the fact that I think it's, for my way of thinking, it's a breakthrough for me into a new way of thinking about class and race.
And you did basically formulate it in words with this essay.
Yes, I do.
For the first time for you.
For me, yes, and I think in this way it's not been done by others either.
What I am attempting to do is to replace a set of concepts that are treated as separate.
You know, we say...
There's class, there's race, there's sex, there's ethnicity.
And I'm showing how these concepts are completely connected, interconnected, and mutually constitutive.
How they constitute one another and how they're inseparable from one another.
Well, that's an important point if people can be convinced of it.
because it would alter the way in which we approach making changes in society.
That's marvelous.
Okay, and that essay is, I think, really the centerpiece of the intellectual new argument that's in the book.
I show that, for example, a class has always been made up of gender.
It has been maintained by
millennia of marriages of people within their own class.
And that has been accomplished by controlling the sexuality of daughters.
And then it's been maintained by inheritance, gendered inheritance, which favors the inheritance of sons over daughters.
And it's out of those two practices
that class has been maintained.
So to speak of class as though it had nothing to do with gender is absurd.
Class is made up of gender.
I mean, we actually have societies in India and China where they will kill daughters.
Right, right.
Exactly.
But, I mean, we did it too here in this country, and not the killing, but, I mean, we...
We maintained the disadvantaging of daughters in inheritance and in property rights.
And out of that, great fortunes were made.
I have a wonderful quote from Benjamin Franklin when he contemplates marriage, you know, and the girl, and he says, I expected a portion, meaning a dowry, big enough to pay off my debts.
and to establish me in a print shop.
The family said they didn't have it.
So he said, well, they could mortgage their house.
And they said, no, they wouldn't do that.
So he lost all interest in the girl.
Wow.
This is Benjamin Franklin in his autobiography.
One of the fathers of our country.
Right.
I mean, it's normal.
This was normal.
This is the way it's done.
So I think this is a very important essay, and I hope people will think so, too, even if they don't agree with the whole argument, which may happen.
Well, as I said about Shakespeare, read it.
Comment as you will, but read it first.
That's what that is.
I would think that would be a good headline for your story.
Well, we've talked for an hour here, believe it or not.
Fine.
It was very entertaining and...
I enjoyed it enormously, and if it's okay at some point in the future, maybe I could call back and pursue a couple of, it'll be a while.
Well, I'm bringing out another book in the fall.
Okay, and that book is?
The book is called The Feminist Thought of Sarah Grimke, and it's sort of updating of the work I did on Sarah and Angelina Grimke in 1968, and I'm more or less
improving on my own work.
I gave a talk at the University of Minnesota two weeks ago, and there were some people there from Madison.
In fact, they said, gee, maybe you'd like to come out and talk in Madison.
On the book?
Yeah, on my book, my other book, not the book I wrote.
And they did
You know, the whole concept of the library school, you know, is gone now.
But these people from Wisconsin said, you know, we still have a library school and it's thriving.
But all over America, library schools, you know, have been eliminated.
Well, I'm very worried.
I mean, I have a lot of thoughts on that.
I'm very worried about the computerization of primary sources because the people who make the decision on computerizing...
are not trained to know what's significant and what's not.
And on the other hand, the people who are going to do the researching more and more rely on what's on the computer instead of knowing that the computer only has what people have put into it.
I think that's a very, very serious issue.
And one, by the way, that I'm dealing with quite directly in my new book.
At Cornell, for instance, which is leading the world in digitization, and particularly of primary materials.
And in at least one documentable instance, because I saw it happening,
They were actually digitizing some letters, copies of correspondence of Ezra Cornell, for whom the institution is named.
Now, not in his hand, but basically, you know, pre-carbon copy, carbon copies of his outgoing correspondence.
So they decided, it had been decided by a committee there, that the only value here was content, not archival.
And so they were digitizing these documents and apparently destroying the originals.
Oh, my God.
Can you believe this?
Yes, I can, and I'm very concerned about that.
And I witnessed this, and I even had to make a couple of Xerox copies for me.
Terrible.
And, you know, maybe it's a small thing.
It's not a small thing.
It's a very big thing.
You put that together with the Congress reducing the appropriation for the archival project.
That's right.
And what if you're left?
You're going to have...
You know, a society without a path.
You know, and then they will tell you, of course, that, you know, hey, it's all zeros and ones, which is digital.
But you have systems which change, and nobody can... Nobody will be able to read those digital systems we now are reading 50 years from now.
There are things right now that we can't access that were put on cards 20 years ago.
But there's another item there.
I mean, and I have...
spoken a few times at library conferences and so on, but I helped to create a new field of women's history.
And the only reason I could create it is that I could go to archives that paid no attention to women, where the archivist had no idea that he had material on women in his archives.
And I could dig them out
and say, hey, here they are.
You can see them.
Can you give me an example of that?
Oh, sure.
Mary Jones, right, is under Samuel Jones Family Papers.
This is an actual name now?
No.
I'm making it up.
Mary Jones is under the Samuel Jones Family Papers.
If I went into the archives and I said, do you have any papers?
on Mary Jones he would say no and then he would say Jones Jones oh we have Jones family papers you might look now they might have 20,000 items in there they're not indexed after Mary Jones if you actually look there are more letters by females than by males in the Jones papers but the archives didn't know it alright now if I hadn't been able to go into those archives asking new questions and looking at the sources
I could not have made the claims that women's history made, namely that they're source material.
And we now, we had, I mean, one of the initial projects was to start a women's history sources survey, which we made and which showed that in every archive in the United States, there are vast holdings, primary holdings pertaining to women.
But that wasn't known.
20 years from now, 50 years from now, if there's a new field, nobody's going to be able to do that.
Because they won't be able to have access to the primary sources.
Right.
They will ask the computer for something, and the computer doesn't have it because the people who categorize today use today's category.
But maybe 25 years from now, there'll be new categories, for all we know.
I find this now when scrolling the electronic catalog of books.
They will have a category there, but the category doesn't dovetail with the category I'm interested in.
That's exactly the problem.
And so what this will lead to is to a homogenizing of
the cultural heritage that's much more dangerous than anything that the, you know, if the traditionals really were concerned with maintaining the tradition, they ought to attend to this, because these are the real issues.
This is where the tradition is being destroyed.
In a way, it's upheld.
That is, Cornell preserves Ezra Cornell's papers.
Maybe Mrs. Cornell did something of significance, which they're not putting into the computer at all.
Exactly, exactly.
Okay, that's where we are.
I don't know if that's exactly the case.
No, no, no.
We're using this as an example, but that's the story.
And that is happening all over.
And then the new breed of students, you know, their idea of research is to ask the computer to do the research for them, and then they think they've researched.
Well, you know, my students, when they did that, you know, I sent them back to the library.
I said, spend four days, and you know how.
And you come up with the real sources.
Don't come up with this garbage.
That's wonderful.
That doesn't happen so much anymore.
No, that's great.
I realize I am like, you know, like I have my finger in the dike.
That's about all.
No, not very hopeful.
That's wonderful.
It's the only thing that makes me rather pessimistic.
But maybe people will get tired of the machinery too, you know?
Wouldn't that be wonderful?
I still believe, you know, I only live 45 minutes from Widener and I read there.
And what I can find in there by just walking through the stacks.
Sure, sure.
And what you can find by...
Browsing books.
That's what I mean.
I mean, I'll go in looking for one thing, but inevitably the most important thing is going to be next to it.
Okay, I'm going to give you one other little piece of information for you because you've been such a good interviewer.
Well, thank you.
It's been a pleasure to talk to you.
I talk mostly to ignorant people.
Well, the pleasure is mine, really.
And I really enjoy it.
You're kind.
Thank you.
If you get a chance to look at feminist consciousness, right, the
Feminist Consciousness.
You will find that there was a woman named Christine de Pizan.
Oh yes, she's famous.
In the beginning of the 14th century.
And she wrote really what we know to be the first feminist book, a book of the City of the Ladies, which if you look at it closely, is actually an attempt to write women's history by lining up famous
women who have done important things, right?
And it's very idiosyncratic and biased and everything else, but there it is.
But it's the first.
Well, it's the first we know.
I'm not going to say that ever, because in women's history, we never know what was supposed to happen.
But it's the first on record.
And about, I don't know, 10, 12 years before, Boccaccio,
did the same thing.
He wrote a compilation of famous women, and she knew it.
She used it.
Well, what happened was that in succeeding centuries, I noticed that everyone who compiled lists of famous women used Boccaccio's list, and nobody used Christina Pizarro's.
And I said, gee, this is weird.
Why is that?
Just plain prejudice.
And then I researched it, just these two titles, and I found that Boccaccio's book, even in his lifetime, was reprinted in several languages in Europe and was constantly reprinted century after century.
Christine de Pizan's book appeared in French, was translated into English in her lifetime,
Never appeared again in English until 1970.
Wow.
And was not reprinted in Europe.
So the result is that the authority for the history of women was Boccaccio when it should have been Christine de Pizan.
And her list was by far the stronger list, you would say.
More feminist list.
Okay.
Feminist bias.
It was also a longer and more complex list.
I did a computer comparison.
Really?
Did you publish this?
No.
I mentioned it in the book, but this particular thing about tracing the book prints, I didn't do until after this book was published.
When I was at the Huntington Library, they have this wonderful collection of old books, and they have an archivist that helped me how to do this.
And then I found the explanation.
See, I was puzzled by the fact that, for example, I documented 700 years of feminist Bible criticism.
And I worked on Sarah Grimke, who was, in the 19th century, the first and most important feminist Bible critic.
And then Elizabeth Cady Stanton, 50 years later,
wrote the woman's Bible, and both of them say that this is the first time a woman has done this.
And I wondered how especially this could be true for Sarah Grimke, who was a Quaker, and Margaret Fell, the wife of George Fox, who was the founder of the Quakers, had done exactly what Sarah Grimke had done.
She had gone through the Bible with a fine-tooth comb,
and commented on every line in the Bible that pertained to a woman.
And I said, how could Sarah Grimkin not know this?
Well, very simple.
I checked the editions.
Margaret Fell's book never reached America.
Isn't that amazing?
Yeah.
That's it.
Now, this you could look at in your story of the book.
Oh, believe me.
In your footnote.
It's marvelous, yeah.
Well, I think you'll get more than a footnote.
I think you'll get a quote.
Okay, that's really, I mean, it was staggering.
It was staggering to me because that I did not know when I started, you know.
I did not know that that was the case.
Now there's a word that is in common usage called marginalization.
Is this an example of that?
This is it.
This is how it's done.
And when you say, was it a conspiracy?
Did the booksellers of London and France and Paris and Berlin get together and say, we'll do this?
No.
It wasn't a conspiracy.
They didn't need it.
They knew that anything written by somebody with the name of Margaret was not important.
So if Christine de Pisan had written under the name of Christopher de Pisan, maybe... It probably would have been reprinted.
Maybe.
This is a much better book than Boccaccio.
It really is.
It's weird.
It's idiosyncratic.
But anyway, so it was a pleasure talking to you.
Well, I've enjoyed it enormously.
Thank you so much.
And I promise.
And I'll also give you a list of where it runs so you'll have an idea.
That would be nice.
Thank you.
Thank you so much for your time.
Goodbye.
Good morning.